#  Cryptography

The basics of cryptography begins with a story of Alice wanting to send a message $x$ to Bob. They both know Eve who is an eavesdropper thus they need a why to send their messages securily. Alice encrypts her message with an ecryption $E$ such that the message send to Bob is $E(x)$. Bob on the other hand has a decryption $D$ such that $D(E(x)) = x$.

## RSA Public Key Schemes

Public key schemes are methods to allow Bob to recieve encrypted messages without ever meeting Alice. In other words, Bob never had a decryption sent from by Alice. How this work is that Bob creates a digital locker and sends the locker to Alice. Alice can now lock messages in the locker and sends that back to Bob where Bob only has the locker keys. The actual scheme works as so:

* Each person has a **public key** publish to the world and a **private key** secured to themselves.
* The public key for say Bob acts as an encoder $E_B$ that allows Alice to send a secure message.
* Bob uses his private key to decrypt the message.

### Public Key

The public key is generated by a pair of numbers $N$ and $e$. Let's associate two large prime numbers $p$ and $q$ such that,

$$ N := p \cdot q $$

We pick a small value $e$ that is a coprime of $(p-1)(q-1)$

$$ e : ~~ \gcd\Big(e,(p-1)(q-1)\Big) = 1$$

The public key is then $(N,e)$

* An encryption of a message $x$ can be made with a public key by,

    $$ E(x) = x^e \bmod N $$

### Private Key

The private key is the value $d$ which is the inverse of $e$ in the mod space of $(p-1)(q-1)$

$$ d: ~~ d\cdot e \equiv 1 \pmod{(p-1)(q-1)} $$

*  A decryption of an encrypted message $E(x) = x^e$ can be made by,

    $$ D(x^e) = x^{ed} \bmod N $$

    Along with Fermat's Little Theorem the decryption holds because we can prove that,

    $$ x^{ed} \bmod N = x \bmod N $$

#### Fermat's Little Theorem

_**Theorem:** For a prime number $p$ and an integer $a \in \set{1,2,\ldots,p-1}$_

$$ a^{p-1} \equiv 1 \pmod{p} $$

### Hacking the Key

The RSA for a large bit value of $N$ is great because there exists no method that can determine the original message $x$ given the information $(N, e)$.

1. **Brute Force Attack**

    One may try to forcefully try to figure out one of the unknown variables $x$ or $d$. For $x$, the hacker would attempt to check for every value of $x$,

    $$ x^e = E(x) \bmod N $$

    This method requires $O(2^N)$.

2. **Prime Factorization**

    Another way is to find all the prime factors of $N = pq$ and use $p$ and $q$ to determine the private key $d$.